doc: tfm: Document TF-M as the default secure firmware (#7631)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_tfm.rst

   :local:
   :depth: 2

> On nRF5340 and nRF9160, Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) is used for running an application in the non-secure state.

Reviewer: I have some problem with this statement. TF-M is implementing the secure image and has no knowledge about what the application is doing

How about:

> On nRF5340 and nRF9160, Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) can be used to establish root-of-trust when running an appliation in the non-secure state.

Author: What this sentence is saying is that TF-M is responsible for configuring the application to run in the non-secure state. The application does not put itself as non-secure.

Author: ```suggestion
On nRF5340 and nRF9160, Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) can be used to configure and boot an application as non-secure.
```

> It provides a highly configurable set of software components to create a Trusted Execution Environment.

Reviewer 2: Where does it make most sense to add link to https://armmbed.github.io/mbed-crypto/html/? This paragraph? Or with the sentence above it?

Reviewer 2: Added under section 'Enabling secure services'.

This is achieved by a set of secure run time services such as Secure Storage, Cryptography, Audit Logs, and Attestation.
Additionally, secure boot through MCUboot in TF-M ensures integrity of run time software and supports firmware upgrade.

> Support for TF-M with :ref:`minimal version <tfm_minimal_build>` disabled in |NCS| is currently experimental.

Reviewer 2: Maybe split this sentence out of this paragraph. Make it a standalone sentence, for better visibility.

* ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``

> * ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns``

Author: We do support them. However we support more than that.
This should really be *_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns and *_nrf9160_ns. What is the best way to document this?

> * ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns``

Reviewer 2: How many are there? Too many to actually be listed?

> * ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns``

Author: Well, it is better to say that we support the SoCs, instead of the boards. Since the users will define their own boards most likely.
SoC support is what is important.

   * On the nRF5340 DK v2.0.0, there is one fewer COM port than on v1.0.0, so the secure and non-secure UART peripheral must be wired to the same pins.
     Specifically, wire the pins **P0.25** and **P0.26** to **P0.20** and **P0.22**, respectively.

> , at this time, not all SPM functions are available in TF-M.

Reviewer 2: Removed all.

> Migrating from SPM:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrating from Secure Partition Manager:
```

> Migrating from SPM:

Reviewer 2: At first I was wondering if this sections should be moved further up, but maybe it is ok to leave it where it is.

*******************

Application code that uses SPM :ref:`lib_secure_services` needs to be ported to use TF-M instead because the interface to TF-M is different.

> The following SPM services can be replaced by TF-M.
> * ``spm_request_system_reboot`` use ``tfm_platform_system_reset``.
> * ``spm_request_random_number`` use ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy``.
> * ``spm_request_read`` use ``tfm_platform_mem_read`` or ``soc_secure_mem_read``
> * ``spm_s0_active`` use ``tfm_platform_s0_active``
> * ``spm_firmware_info`` use ``tfm_firmware_info``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following SPM services can be replaced by TF-M:

* ``spm_request_system_reboot`` uses ``tfm_platform_system_reset``.
* ``spm_request_random_number`` uses ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy``.
* ``spm_request_read`` uses ``tfm_platform_mem_read`` or ``soc_secure_mem_read``
* ``spm_s0_active`` uses ``tfm_platform_s0_active``
* ``spm_firmware_info`` uses ``tfm_firmware_info``
```

> The following SPM services have no replacement in TF-M.
> * ``spm_prevalidate_b1_upgrade``
> * ``spm_busy_wait``
> * ``spm_set_ns_fatal_error_handler``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following SPM services have no replacement in TF-M:

* ``spm_prevalidate_b1_upgrade``
* ``spm_busy_wait``
* ``spm_set_ns_fatal_error_handler``
```

> .. note::
>    TF-M by default configure memory regions as secure memory, while SPM by default configured memory regions as non-secure.
>    The partitions ``tfm_nonsecure``, ``mcuboot_secondary`` and ``settings_storage`` are configured as non-secure flash regions.
>    The partition ``sram_nonsecure`` is configured as non-secure RAM region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note::
   By default, TF-M configures memory regions as secure memory, while SPM configures memory regions as non-secure by default.
   The partitions ``tfm_nonsecure``, ``mcuboot_secondary`` and ``settings_storage`` are configured as non-secure flash memory regions.
   The partition ``sram_nonsecure`` is configured as a non-secure RAM region.
```

   * On the nRF5340 DK v2.0.0, there is one fewer COM port than on v1.0.0, so the secure and non-secure UART peripheral must be wired to the same pins.
     Specifically, wire the pins **P0.25** and **P0.26** to **P0.20** and **P0.22**, respectively.

Migrating from Secure Partition Manager to Trusted Firmware-M
*************************************************************

The interface to TF-M is different from the interface to SPM.
Due to that, the application code that uses the SPM :ref:`lib_secure_services` needs to be ported to use TF-M instead.

The following SPM services can be replaced by TF-M:

> * ``spm_request_system_reboot`` uses ``tfm_platform_system_reset``.

Author: The meaning of this is wrong now.

Maybe:
``spm_request_random_number`` use ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy`` instead?
or:
``spm_request_random_number`` replaced by ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy``.

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see! :)
How about:
* Replace ``spm_request_random_number`` with ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy``.

   * On the nRF5340 DK v2.0.0, there is one fewer COM port than on v1.0.0, so the secure and non-secure UART peripheral must be wired to the same pins.
     Specifically, wire the pins **P0.25** and **P0.26** to **P0.20** and **P0.22**, respectively.

Migrating from Secure Partition Manager to Trusted Firmware-M
*************************************************************

The interface to TF-M is different from the interface to SPM.
Due to that, the application code that uses the SPM :ref:`lib_secure_services` needs to be ported to use TF-M instead.

The following SPM services can be replaced by TF-M:

* ``spm_request_system_reboot`` uses ``tfm_platform_system_reset``.
* ``spm_request_random_number`` uses ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy``.
* ``spm_request_read`` uses ``tfm_platform_mem_read`` or ``soc_secure_mem_read``
* ``spm_s0_active`` uses ``tfm_platform_s0_active``
* ``spm_firmware_info`` uses ``tfm_firmware_info``

The following SPM services have no replacement in TF-M:

* ``spm_prevalidate_b1_upgrade``
* ``spm_busy_wait``
* ``spm_set_ns_fatal_error_handler``

.. note::

>    By default, TF-M configures memory regions as secure memory, while SPM configures memory regions as non-secure by default.

Reviewer 2: When I think about it, this 'by default' in the end of this sentence can be removed.

Limitations
***********

The following services are not supported:
 - Audit Log service in IPC model
 - Firmware Update service
 - Attestation service

> The following Crypto modules / ciphers are not supported:
>  - OFB
>  - CFB

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following Crypto modules or ciphers are not supported:

* OFB
* CFB
```

Isolation level 3 is not supported.

> In Isolation level 2 or higher the number of peripherals configured as secure in Application Root of Trust (ARoT) is limited by the number of available MPU regions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Isolation level 2 or higher, the number of peripherals configured as secure in Application Root of Trust (ARoT) is limited by the number of available MPU regions.
```

> Only the GCC toolchain is supported on by nordic platforms for building TF-M.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Nordic platforms support only the GCC toolchain for building TF-M.
```

Enabling Floating point support in TF-M is currently not supported.
Enabling Floating point Hard ABI (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FP_HARDABI`) in the application is currently not supported.

Migrating from Secure Partition Manager to Trusted Firmware-M
*************************************************************

The interface to TF-M is different from the interface to SPM.
Due to that, the application code that uses the SPM :ref:`lib_secure_services` needs to be ported to use TF-M instead.

> The following SPM services can be replaced by TF-M:
> 
> * Replace ``spm_request_system_reboot`` with ``tfm_platform_system_reset``.
> * Replace ``spm_request_random_number`` with ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy``.
> * Replace ``spm_request_read`` with ``tfm_platform_mem_read`` or ``soc_secure_mem_read``
> * Replace ``spm_s0_active`` with ``tfm_platform_s0_active``
> * Replace ``spm_firmware_info`` with ``tfm_firmware_info``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TF-M can replace the following SPM services:

* ``spm_request_system_reboot`` with ``tfm_platform_system_reset``.
* ``spm_request_random_number`` with ``psa_generate_random`` or ``entropy_get_entropy``.
* ``spm_request_read`` with ``tfm_platform_mem_read`` or ``soc_secure_mem_read``.
* ``spm_s0_active`` with ``tfm_platform_s0_active``.
* ``spm_firmware_info`` with ``tfm_firmware_info``.
```

The following SPM services have no replacement in TF-M:

* ``spm_prevalidate_b1_upgrade``
* ``spm_busy_wait``
* ``spm_set_ns_fatal_error_handler``

.. note::
   By default, TF-M configures memory regions as secure memory, while SPM configures memory regions as non-secure.

>    The partitions ``tfm_nonsecure``, ``mcuboot_secondary`` and ``nonsecure_storage`` are configured as non-secure flash memory regions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The partitions ``tfm_nonsecure``, ``mcuboot_secondary``, and ``nonsecure_storage`` are configured as non-secure flash memory regions.
```

   The partition ``sram_nonsecure`` is configured as a non-secure RAM region.

> If a static partition file is used for the application then the following changes must be made:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a static partition file is used for the application, make the following changes:
```

* Rename the ``spm`` partition to ``tfm``.
* Add a partition called ``tfm_secure`` that spans ``mcuboot_pad`` (if MCUboot is enabled) and ``tfm`` partitions.

> * Add a partition called ``tfm_nonsecure`` that spans the application, and possible other application partitions that should be non-secure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add a partition called ``tfm_nonsecure`` that spans the application, and other possible application partitions that must be non-secure.
```

> * For non-secure storage partitions they can be placed inside the ``nonsecure_storage`` partition, and enable the configuration :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_NONSECURE_STORAGE`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* For non-secure storage partitions, place the partitions inside the ``nonsecure_storage`` partition, and enable the configuration :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_NONSECURE_STORAGE`.
```
